unfortunately finding safe places to
release these orangutangs
is increasingly difficult it's hard to
say how long they could be waiting here
but until a permanent wild home can be
found at least the islands give them an
independence and a quality of life they
would never have in a cage one orangutan
who probably appreciates this more than
most is Hercules before he was rescued
Hercules was kept in such a tiny cage it
left him permanently crippled he'll
never have full use of his hands and
feet which means he can't live on these
islands all year round without being
able to climb he could drown when the
water level rises during the rains for
half the year he sits in a cage at the
center but now with the river lows loner
can watch her old friend enjoying a
taste of freedom you smell so much nicer
when you're out here than you do in the
cage oh you smell so much nicer no not
two hands one hand is enough I'm so used
to having him between behind bars
I only use one hand okay onehand onehand
onehand one hand hmm okay he is very
gentle but you know I wouldn't say that
it let's say if you got ahold of my leg
or my arm like really good good hold of
me he's not gonna let me go he's gonna
keep me here for a few days and wonder
me up and down the beaches the male's do
that on card island they sort of good
they change females quite frequently and
they actually so like take them on
strolls along the beach
it looks like sort of like Baywatch or
something sometimes just need the little
red trunks and the bathing suits but
Hercules may not be the beach bum loner
thinks for the first time ever he's been
spotted climbing in the trees it could
be a life-changing moment for Hercules
if we have a long dry season here my
hopes really are that you'll be able to
like get some physiotherapy for his feet
by climbing and who know so if he does
really well and yeah actually man
to move you know between trees we might
keep them out here even during a rainy
season it is almost like you know you
know you're not putting a human being in
prison for the rainy season or for that
for the for the winter sort of thing I
mean for him sitting in a cage it's just
like for human being in prison there's
nothing for him to do even though we
give him lots of enrichment and stuff
it's still not the same as being out
here where he can you know there's other
Arango tags there's females he can you
know he can try and catch he has he
hasn't quite managed to do that yet you
know there's lots of things for to
stimulate him here whereas it's it's not
just it is very much a prison sentence
to have them sitting in a cage and we
rather not do that